Hamlet reveals that he 
found the sealed letter Claudius had written ordering his death in 
England. He tells Horatio he used his father's seal to write another 
letter ordering the deaths of Rosencrantz and Guildenstern and swapped 
them. A servant invites Hamlet to make amends with Laertes by fighting 
him in a duel. The court then comes together to watch the fight. Hamlet 
starts by apologising to Laertes and saying ‘Give me your pardon, sir: 
I’ve done you wrong’. The men then choose their weapons and Laertes 
takes the sword with a poisoned tip. After they have started, Claudius 
drinks to Hamlet’s health before dropping a poisoned pearl into the cup 
and offering it to Hamlet. Hamlet doesn’t drink it but during the fight 
Gertrude drinks the wine from the poisoned cup. Claudius tries to stop 
her saying ‘Gertrude, do not drink’ but it’s too late and Gertrude 
slowly dies. The fight continues and both men end up swapping swords. 
They are both wounded with the deadly poison. Laertes falls first and 
warns Hamlet ‘thou art slain’ and that ‘the king, the king’s to blame’. 
In a fit of rage, Hamlet forces Claudius to drink the poisoned wine and 
‘Follow my mother’. Before Laertes dies, he and Hamlet forgive each 
other. Hamlet then asks Horatio to tell his story to others and predicts
 that Fortinbras will become King of Denmark. He utters his final 
breath, saying ‘The rest is silence. O, o, o, o!’. Fortinbras enters 
with his army, celebrating the fact they have claimed the land in Poland
 and ambassadors also arrive from England saying Rosencrantz and 
Guildenstern have been killed. Horatio promises to explain the chaos.

Fortinbras is moved by Hamlet’s story and orders a soldier’s burial for the dead prince.
